
===== [ Page 1 ] =====

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CONSUMER ELECTRONICS, VOL. 72, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 2026 1865
Secure and Privacy-Preserving Post-Quantum
Attribute-Based Searchable Encryption for
Edge-Driven Transportation Systems
Chintureena Thingom , Bhagavan Konduri, Isha Das , V. Rama Krishna, Rahul Suryoda, Shrabani Mallick,
Faheem Ahmad Reegu , Feruza Saidova, and Deepak Kumar Goyal
Abstract— To address the risks of data leakage and unau-
thorized access in Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS),
particularly in the post-quantum era where traditional cryp-
tographic algorithms are vulnerable, this paper proposes a
novel Post-Quantum Attribute-Based Searchable Encryption
(PQ-ABSE) scheme. The scheme is designed to resist quantum
attacks while providing privacy-preserving search, key aggre-
gation, and lightweight computation. The proposed PQ-ABSE
scheme ensures end-to-end privacy protection during key genera-
tion, access control, and partial decryption phases. By embedding
search keywords into the access policy, it achieves partial policy
hiding and ensures keyword confidentiality under quantum-
resilient assumptions. Moreover, by leveraging key aggregation
techniques, the scheme consolidates all file identifiers that meet
both the search and access conditions into a single aggregate
key, significantly reducing user-side key storage overhead while
ensuring file and data security. Security analysis confirms that
the scheme achieves hidden access structure security, keyword
ciphertext indistinguishability, and trapdoor indistinguishability
in a post-quantum setting. Theoretical analysis and simula-
tion results further demonstrate the scheme’s practicality and
efficiency in terms of both computational and communication
overhead, making it a promising solution for post-quantum
secure ITS data management.
Received 29 June 2025; revised 2 September 2025 and 11 October
2025; accepted 9 November 2025. Date of publication 12 November
2025; date of current version 25 March 2026. (Corresponding author:
Chintureena Thingom.)
Chintureena Thingom is with the Department of CSE, Aditya University,
Surampalem, Andhra Pradesh 533437, India (e-mail: reena.thingom01@
gmail.com).
Bhagavan Konduri is with the Department of Computer Science and
Engineering, Koneru Lakshmaiah Education Foundation, Guntur, Andhra
Pradesh 522302, India (e-mail: bhagavan@kluniversity.in).
Isha Das is with the Network Communication and IoT Laboratory,
Chittagong University of Engineering and Technology, Chattogram 4349,
Bangladesh (e-mail: ishadas2006@gmail.com).
V. Rama Krishna is with the CVR College of Engineering, Hyder-
abad 501510, India (e-mail: rama.vishwa@gmail.com).
Rahul Suryoda is with Data Governance, Data Analytics (Enterprise
Performance Management), AI & ML, Seattle, WD 98101 USA(e-mail:
rsuryodai@outlook.com).
Shrabani Mallick is with the Department of CSE, Dr. B. R. Ambedkar
Institute of Technology, Sri Vijaya Puram 744103, India (e-mail: shrabani.
reek@gmail.com).
Faheem Ahmad Reegu is with the College of Engineering and Computer
Science, Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Jazan Univer-
sity, Jazan 45142, Saudi Arabia (e-mail: freegu@jazanu.edu.sa).
Feruza Saidova is with the Department of Foreign Languages, Tashkent
State University of Economics, Tashkent 100066, Uzbekistan (e-mail:
f.saidova@tsue.uz).
Deepak Kumar Goyal is with the Vaish College of Engineering, Rohtak,
Haryana 124001, India (e-mail: deepakgoyal.vce@gmail.com).
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TCE.2025.3632071
Index Terms— Post-quantum cryptography, intelligent trans-
portation systems, attribute-based searchable encryption, privacy
preservation, quantum-resistant encryption.
I. INTRODUCTION
I
NTELLIGENT Transportation Systems (ITS) are an inte-
gration of various technologies extensively applied in
transportation and represent one of the most critical pillars
of smart cities. They promote intelligent, convenient, and safe
urban transportation [1], [2], [3]. In the era of big data, ITS
generates massive amounts of data [4]. As shown in Figure 1,
numerous roadside units and onboard units upload data to
cloud servers via data platforms, and various application
platforms search and download transportation data as needed.
Governments use cloud data to predict future traffic flows and
passenger trends; enterprises obtain data to assist decision-
making and business analytics to offer better services; public
users access real-time traffic information, plan travel routes,
use autonomous driving features, and perform charging plan-
ning through application platforms [5], [6]. Once traffic data is
leaked, both data users and data providers can suffer significant
losses. Therefore, ensuring the security of traffic data is a
pressing issue for big data applications in ITS.
When assessing cryptographic algorithms, infrastructure,
and architectural decisions for large-scale deployments of
millions of ciphertexts in Industrial Threat Systems (ITS),
scalability analysis must be conducted with an emphasis
on performance (throughput, latency), resource consump-
tion (CPU, memory, energy), and the system’s capacity to
grow horizontally through resource additions. Key tactics
include the use of scalable cloud infrastructure with con-
tainer orchestration, such as Kubernetes, the selection of
effective lightweight cryptographic algorithms, and the design
of distributed systems that steer clear of single sources of
congestion, such a central sorting warehouse in a delivery
system. Long-term scalability also depends on future-proofing
with post-quantum cryptography (PQC) and making sure that
key management is strong.
In 2018, Li et al. [7] first proposed searchable encryp-
tion, which enables searching over encrypted data without
revealing the search content. Currently, most searchable
encryption schemes focus on fuzzy keywords [8], [9] and
ranked search keywords [10], [11], aiming to improve search
1558-4127 © 2025 IEEE. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining, and training of artificial intelligence
and similar technologies. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on August 02,2026 at 10:13:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.


===== [ Page 2 ] =====

1866 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CONSUMER ELECTRONICS, VOL. 72, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 2026
Fig. 1. Architecture of Intelligent Transportation System (ITS) in big data environment.
efficiency on the server side and meet users’ data retrieval
needs [12], [13]. Mobility and topology variability are deploy-
ment factors for vehicle networks that go beyond latency
limitations. This calls for reliable network designs that can
manage frequent handoffs and shifting network configurations.
Security and privacy are also important considerations; to
safeguard sensitive vehicle data, robust encryption and authen-
tication are required. Supporting a high number of vehicles
and devices requires scalability, while interoperability guar-
antees smooth communication between various infrastructure
elements and vehicle brands. Tian et al. [8] employed Bloom
filters and locality-sensitive hashing to compute inner products
on index vectors, improving search accuracy without sacri-
ficing efficiency. Li et al. [10] used locality-sensitive hashing
and Bloom filters to achieve fuzzy keyword search. However,
as user search histories grow, untrusted cloud servers accu-
mulate increasingly detailed information, making user profiles
more transparent.
In 2020, Zhao et al. [14], [15] first combined attribute-
based encryption (ABE) with searchable encryption, proposing
Attribute-Based Searchable Encryption (ABSE). Quantum
computers can effectively solve the underlying asymmetric
encryption problems that pre-quantum Attribute-Based Search
Encryption (ABSE) schemes in Intelligent Transportation Sys-
tems (ITS) rely on, like factoring large integers or the discrete
logarithm problem, these schemes have security limitations.
Accordingly, present ABSE schemes are susceptible to future
quantum attacks since quantum adversaries have the ability to
jeopardize the security and integrity of data in ITS networks,
which could result in fraudulent activity, unauthorized access,
and the interruption of vital services. Based on the number
of keywords, ABSE schemes are categorized into single-
keyword and multi-keyword schemes. The latter includes
conjunctive multi-keyword ABSE [16], ranked multi-keyword
ABSE [17], [18], and ABSE schemes supporting Linear
Secret Sharing Schemes (LSSS) [19], [20], [21], [22], [23].
Comparing all of the subjects under comparison using the
same set of criteria or characteristics is part of the analy-
sis’s organized approach to comparison. The term “provide a
sufficiently deep comparative discussion” refers to the method-
ical analysis of two or more subjects (such as concepts,
methods, or systems) in order to pinpoint and emphasize
their similarities and differences in a thorough and perceptive
manner, frequently with the intention of making inferences
regarding their individual advantages, disadvantages, environ-
ments, or developmental trends. The particular topics and the
analysis’s goal will determine how in-depth and focused the
comparison is; it may compare their characteristics, histori-
cal development, real-world uses, or theoretical foundations.
Fu et al. [19] proposed the first LSSS-based multi-keyword
ABSE that supports trapdoors, embedding keyword informa-
tion in access policies. However, since the access policies are
public, the keywords are also exposed. Singamaneni et al. [21]
associated keywords with file attributes so that user trapdoors
are keyword-related, but their scheme outsources encryption to
the cloud, thus exposing access structures containing keyword
information. Sun et al. [23] proposed a searchable encryption
scheme combining ABE with a time-sharing mechanism,
enabling secure data access, fine-grained search, and time-
controlled data validity. In computer science and building,
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on August 02,2026 at 10:13:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.


===== [ Page 3 ] =====

THINGOM et al.: SECURE AND PRIVACY-PRESERVING PQ-ABSE FOR EDGE-DRIVEN TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS 1867
the term “aggregate key construction” is not accepted or used
consistently. In addition to discussing the notion of composite
or aggregate keys in database systems, the search results also
cover the characteristics and uses of construction aggregates
(such as sand, gravel, and crushed stone) and the building
process. Key Construction Aggregate: By allowing users to
decrypt all matched ciphertexts with a single key, an effective
aggregate key technique improves file-level security and saves
key storage. The discrepancy between a device’s stated storage
capacity and its actual useable space is known as storage
overhead. The normal operation of a storage system, which
must utilize a percentage of the capacity for system files, is the
cause of the space loss rather than a flaw. It is difficult to
quantify this overhead in precise MB/GB figures because it
varies on a variety of factors, such as the number of charac-
teristics, security parameters, and algorithms selected. Here are
the variables influencing storage overhead and research-based
representative values for context.
However, with the emergence of quantum computing, these
classical cryptographic schemes face significant vulnerabili-
ties. Quantum algorithms such as Shor’s and Grover’s can
break many of the hardness assumptions on which exist-
ing searchable encryption and ABE models rely [24], [25].
Therefore, it is crucial to redesign ABSE schemes that
are secure under post-quantum assumptions—particularly in
privacy-sensitive domains like ITS where data integrity and
confidentiality are paramount.
The main contributions of this paper are as follows:
• Enhanced Privacy Protection: The scheme ensures
user and keyword privacy across key generation, access
control, and partial decryption. Attribute keys are jointly
negotiated, and keywords are securely embedded in
access policies, with cloud-assisted partial decryption
minimizing user-side exposure.
• Aggregate Key Construction: An efficient aggregate
key mechanism enables users to decrypt all matched
ciphertexts with a single key, reducing key storage and
enhancing file-level security.
• Lightweight and Outsourced Encryption: By inte-
grating online/offline encryption and outsourcing heavy
computation, the scheme reduces the burden on resource-
constrained ITS edge devices. The plan protects user and
keyword privacy during partial decryption, access control,
and key creation. In addition to securely embedding
keywords in access controls and mutually negotiating
attribute keys, cloud-assisted partial decryption reduces
user-side exposure. system known as Post-Quantum
Attribute-Based Searchable Encryption (PQ-ABSE). The
system is made to withstand quantum attacks while
offering lightweight compute, key aggregation, and
privacy-preserving search. Privacy protection from begin-
ning to end is guaranteed by the suggested PQ-ABSE
scheme.
Recent developments in post-quantum lattice-based searchable
encryption include blockchain log system-specific schemes
that rely on decentralized trust rather than a central authority
and thwart keyword guessing attacks. Additionally, research
focuses on assessing global digital security frameworks,
emphasizing the necessity of effective and robust lattice-based
encryption against quantum adversaries, and investigating a
number of underlying mathematical issues to guarantee long-
term security against quantum computers.
• Post-Quantum Security: RSA and ECC are two exam-
ples of classical algorithms that are susceptible to quan-
tum algorithms like the Shors algorithm. Lattice-based
cryptography presents a viable substitute.
• Basis of Security: Complex mathematical difficulties
involving point lattices in a high-dimensional Euclidean
space are the foundation of lattice-based cryptography’s
security.
The plan protects user and keyword privacy during partial
decryption, access control, and key creation. In addition to
securely embedding keywords in access controls and mutually
negotiating attribute keys, cloud-assisted partial decryption
reduces user-side exposure. system known as Post-Quantum
Attribute-Based Searchable Encryption (PQ-ABSE). The sys-
tem is made to withstand quantum attacks while offering
lightweight compute, key aggregation, and privacy-preserving
search. Privacy protection from beginning to end is guaranteed
by the suggested PQ-ABSE scheme.
II. PRELIMINARIES
A. Linear Secret Sharing Schemes
A secret sharing scheme over the attribute set W is said to
be a linear secret sharing scheme (LSSS) over a finite field
Xw if it satisfies the following properties:
1) Each share of the secret is a vector over Xw.
2) There exists an e × n secret-sharing matrix N . The j-th
row of N is associated with an attribute µ( j), for all
j = 1, 2, . . . , e, where µ is a mapping from row indices
to attributes: µ : {1, 2, . . . , e} → W.
Given a column vector o = (s, o2, o3, . . . , on)
L, where s ∈ Xw
is the secret and o2, o3, . . . , on ∈ Xw are randomly chosen
values, the product N o defines the vector of shares in the
LSSS 5. Each component (N o) j corresponds to the share for
the attribute µ( j), and the full vector N o has length e.
B. Hardness Assumption
The Decisional Bilinear Diffie-Hellman (DBDH) assump-
tion is defined as follows: Let w be a large prime, I be a
multiplicative cyclic group of order w, and i be a generator
of I . Let a, b, c, z ∈ Xw be randomly chosen.
Given the tuples
(i, i
a, i
b, i
c, e(i, i)
abc) and (i, i
a, i
b, i
c, e(i, i)
z), (1)
if no probabilistic polynomial-time algorithm can distinguish
between e(i, i)
abc and e(i, i)
z with non-negligible advantage,
then the DBDH assumption holds [23]. This assumption forms
the foundation of the post-quantum security claims in this
work, as it underpins the intractability of the pairing-based
computations used in key generation, encryption, and search,
even against adversaries equipped with quantum computing
capabilities.
The post-quantum security claims in this study are founded
on this assumption, which supports the intractability of the
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on August 02,2026 at 10:13:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.


===== [ Page 4 ] =====

1868 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CONSUMER ELECTRONICS, VOL. 72, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 2026
pairing-based computations used for search, encryption, and
key generation—even against attackers with quantum com-
puting capabilities. A unique Post-Quantum Attribute-Based
Searchable Encryption (PQ-ABSE) approach is proposed in
this study to address the vulnerabilities of standard crypto-
graphic algorithms in the post-quantum era.
III. SCHEME MODEL DEFINITION
A. System Model
To address the post-quantum privacy requirements of Intel-
ligent Transportation Systems (ITS), this scheme adopts a
four-entity architecture composed of:
• Cloud Service Providers (CSP): Responsible for storing
encrypted traffic data, performing search operations over
encrypted indexes, and assisting in partial decryption
using token-based access to support quantum-resilient
privacy.
• Transportation Control Center (TCC): A semi-trusted
authority that manages attributes, generates user-specific
keys, and initializes the cryptographic parameters under
post-quantum assumptions.
• Data Owner (DO): Terminal entities (e.g., roadside
or onboard units) that collect traffic data and perform
lightweight encryption before outsourcing ciphertext and
keyword indexes to the cloud platform.
• Data User (DU): Applications or public users who
generate search trapdoors using their secret keys and
receive matched results securely without revealing private
queries to the server.
In the context of Public-Key Encryption with Keyword
Search (PEKS) schemes, security proofs for trapdoor
indistinguishability—a cryptographic feature that guarantees
that keywords cannot be distinguished from their associ-
ated trapdoors—are usually provided. These proofs frequently
reduce the security of the test phases or trapdoor generation
to well-known hard issues in cryptography, including pairing-
based assumptions or the Diffie-Hellman problem. Particular
PEKS scheme constructs that are intended to keep attackers
from recognizing keywords even when a legitimate trap-
door is used are frequently supported by proofs. Figure 2
illustrates the architecture of this post-quantum secure ITS
framework.
As shown in Figure 2, this architecture allows data owners
to upload encrypted traffic data and searchable indexes to the
cloud, while data users issue keyword trapdoors based on their
attributes. The CSP performs trapdoor matching and returns
partially decrypted ciphertexts along with aggregate keys.
These operations, when implemented using post-quantum
secure primitives, ensure that both data content and access
patterns remain protected even in the presence of quantum-
enabled adversaries.
After completing trapdoor matching, the CSP provides
aggregate keys and partially decrypted ciphertexts. These
procedures, when carried out with post-quantum secure prim-
itives, guarantee that access patterns and data content are
safeguarded even when adversaries with quantum capabilities
are present. Control Center for Transportation (TCC): Setting
up the system, controlling user attributes, and creating attribute
Fig. 2. System model.
keys for data owners and users fall within the purview of TCC,
a semi-trusted authority.
1) Cloud Service Provider (CSP): When a Data User (DU)
wants to search over encrypted data, the CSP matches
the trapdoor uploaded by the DU with the keyword
index uploaded by the data owner (DO). It then partially
decrypts the matched ciphertext and generates an aggre-
gate key. The CSP sends both the aggregate key and the
partially decrypted ciphertext to the data user. Following
trapdoor matching, the CSP provides aggregate keys
and partially decrypted ciphertexts. These procedures,
when carried out with post-quantum secure primitives,
guarantee that access patterns and data content are
safe even when adversaries with quantum capabilities
are present. The keyword index uploaded by the data
owner (DO) and the trapdoor uploaded by the DU are
matched by the CSP.
2) Transportation Control Center (TCC): TCC is a semi-
trusted authority responsible for initializing the system,
managing user attributes, and generating attribute keys
for both data owners and data users.
3) Data Owner (DO): Data owners include terminal data
collection devices such as onboard units and roadside
units in intelligent transportation systems. These termi-
nals collect traffic data, encrypt it, and outsource the
ciphertext to the cloud server, which handles storage and
sharing.
4) Data User (DU): Data users refer to various application
platforms such as automotive service centers, vehicle
rescue systems, and navigation software that utilize
traffic data. These platforms upload keyword trapdoors
to the server, and in return, receive partially decrypted
ciphertexts and aggregate keys. Platforms receive aggre-
gate keys and partially decrypted ciphertexts in exchange
for uploading keyword trapdoors to the server. It is
commonly anticipated that storage savings will increase
dramatically as the quantity of ciphertexts in Intelligent
Transportation Systems (ITS) datasets increases, particu-
larly when employing data deduplication techniques that
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on August 02,2026 at 10:13:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.


===== [ Page 5 ] =====

THINGOM et al.: SECURE AND PRIVACY-PRESERVING PQ-ABSE FOR EDGE-DRIVEN TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS 1869
Algorithm 1 Game 1: oAS-RCCA (Replayable CCA Security
With Hidden Access Structures)
Require: Two attribute keys SCKU R0, SCKU R1 for sets IU R0, IU R1
1: Challenger CS returns ciphertext CPTSS for policy (N ∗, µ∗) and corre-
sponding transformation keys
2: Adversary AS chooses a challenge bit b ∈ {0, 1}
3: CS verifies if IU Rb satisfies (N ∗, µ∗) and outputs verification result Vb
4: AS outputs guess b′
5: return AS wins if b = b′
eliminate redundancy. Reductions in decryption time
are more difficult to achieve; although some methods,
such as data compression or dynamic RSA, can increase
efficiency by reducing the amount of data or repetitive
computations, the complexity of decryption itself means
that overall time may increase with more ciphertexts,
albeit possibly more slowly than without optimizations.
B. Security Model
To formally define the security of the proposed PQ-ABSE
scheme, we adopt a post-quantum game-based simula-
tion framework. A classical adversary targets a comput-
ing environment with traditional hardware and algorithms.
Replay able CCA security with hidden access structures
(oAS-RCCA), keyword ciphertext in-distinguishability, and
trapdoor in-distinguishability are the three security games
that are available. Each game lays forth the requirements
for success in breaching privacy and describes the capa-
bilities of an adversary in polynomial time under adaptive
questions. A quantum adversary can use quantum phenomena
like superposition and entanglement to perform some com-
plex computations (like factoring large numbers) much more
efficiently than a classical attacker, who can only perform
operations on bits. Therefore, quantum adversaries pose a
serious threat for the future. Three security games are modeled:
(1) Replayable CCA security with hidden access structures
(oAS-RCCA), (2) Keyword ciphertext indistinguishability,
and (3) Trapdoor indistinguishability. Each game defines the
capabilities of a polynomial-time adversary under adaptive
queries and outlines success conditions for breaking privacy.
A scheme is considered secure if the adversary’s advantage
in each game is negligible, even against quantum-capable
adversaries. The corresponding security games are detailed
in Algorithms 1–3. Non-specialist readers of ITS (Information
Technology Systems) are people who have little to no technical
background in the topic being discussed. Whether they are
supervisors, clients, or members of the general public, their
main concern is frequently how a technology might help
them in their daily lives or how to make judgments about
it, rather than the intricate technical details of the system.
Information must be presented simply to non-specialist ITS
readers, minimizing the use of jargon or highly technical
phrases while converting complicated ideas into plain English
and providing the required background information.
IV. CONCRETE SCHEME
This scheme consists of five main phases: system setup, key
generation, encryption, search, and decryption.
Algorithm 2 Game 2: Keyword Ciphertext Indistinguishability
1: Setup: Challenger initializes system; adversary defines access structure
(N ∗, µ∗)
2: Phase 1: AS issues adaptive queries:
• Key extractions for S ̸|H (N ∗, µ∗)
• Keyword ciphertext queries for arbitrary ww
3: Challenge: AS submits w′
0, w′
1; CS picks b, encrypts w′
b, and
returns Iwb
4: Phase 2: Continue queries for keys S′ ̸|H (N ∗, µ∗) and w′ /
∈ {w′
0, w′
1}
5: Guess: AS outputs b′; wins if b = b′
6: return Advantage: AdvC I P
AS (δ) =

Pr[b′ = b] −
1
2

Algorithm 3 Game 3: Trapdoor Indistinguishability
1: Init: CS generates public parameters
2: Phase 1: AS issues key queries for S ̸|H (N ∗, µ∗)
3: Challenge: Submit w′
0, w′
1; CS selects b, computes trapdoor Lwb
4: Phase 2: Continue queries excluding reused attributes
5: Guess: AS outputs b′
6: return Advantage: AdvT R A
AS (δ) =

Pr[b′ = b] −
1
2

A. System Setup Phase
The Traffic Control Center (TCC) runs the system initial-
ization algorithm, selects a security parameter ϖ , and sets up
two multiplicative cyclic groups I1 and I2 of prime order w,
with i and h as generators of I1. A bilinear map is defined as
e : I1 × I1 → I2. The performance and security of systems
that use a hash function are greatly impacted by the hash
function selection. It is assumed that the outputs of the hash
functions mapping to these sets have the same bit lengths.
Reversing the hash function to determine the original input
from a particular hash output (preimage attack) should be
computationally impossible. The following hash functions are
selected:
O1 : {0, 1}
∗ → 𭟋w, O2 : {0, 1}
∗ → I1,
O3 : {0, 1}
∗ → I1. (2)
Randomly select γ , ξ ∈ 𭟋w, and compute i
γ , i
ξ , h
ξ ,
and e(i, i). The primary secret key is MSCK = {γ , ξ }, and
the public parameters are:
PRP =
{
g, h, p, i
γ , i
ξ , h
ξ , e(i, i), I1, I2, e, O1, O2, O3
}
.
(3)
B. Key Generation Phase
In this phase, the Data User (DU) collaborates with the
Transportation Control Center (TCC) to generate an attribute-
based secret key without disclosing sensitive information. The
DU first blinds its attributes using random parameters and con-
structs a partial secret key. This key is securely transmitted to
the TCC, which completes the key generation by incorporating
its own randomness. This process ensures user attribute privacy
under post-quantum security assumptions. End-user confiden-
tiality is maintained under robust cryptographic assumptions,
meaning that neither the Transportation Control Center (TCC)
nor the Cloud Service Provider (CSP) have access to the
private information of platform or vehicle users. In order to
improve scalability and efficiency, an aggregate key generation
technique is included. The aggregate key generation technique
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on August 02,2026 at 10:13:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.


===== [ Page 6 ] =====

1870 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CONSUMER ELECTRONICS, VOL. 72, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 2026
Algorithm 4 Post-Quantum Key Generation Phase
Require: Public parameters P R P, primary secret key M SC K = {γ , ξ }, user
attribute set 1U R , global identity G I DU R
Ensure: Post-quantum attribute secret key SC KU R
1: // User-side randomized encoding (post-quantum privacy)
2: DU selects C SU R ∈ Zw and maps 1U R → {Catez : Valuez }
3: Sample az ∈ Zw for each attribute, compute µ ← O1(G I DU R )
4: // Trapdoor-hardened partial key generation
5: Compute:
K
′
0,z = (i
γ )
az , K
′
1,z = i
ξ ·O2({Catez })−az
K
′
2 = (o
ξ )
µ·C SU R , K
′
3 = (o
ξ )
qU R
6: Send partial key SC K ′
U R to TCC over secure quantum-resistant channel
7: // TCC completes key using blinded values
8: TCC selects w1 ∈ Zw and computes:
K2 = (K
′
2)
w1 , K3 = (K
′
3)
a·w1
9: Return SC KU R = {K0,z , K1,z , K2, K3}
creates and applies a single, small cryptographic key to pro-
vide access to a predetermined collection of encrypted data.
This method, called a Key-Aggregate Cryptosystem (KAC),
provides notable gains in efficiency and scalability, especially
in cloud storage settings. An effective public key encryption
system that allows for flexible delegation is the Key Aggregate
Cryptosystem, which facilitates scalable data sharing in cloud
storage. An attribute-based secret key will be generated by the
Transportation Control Center (TCC) without revealing private
data. The DU creates a partial secret key after blinding its
properties with random parameters. This key is safely sent to
the TCC, which adds its own randomness to finish the key
creation. The detailed steps are outlined in Algorithm 4.
A searchable encryption mechanism is a cryptographic tech-
nology that, usually on a distant server or cloud, enables users
to look for specific data inside an encrypted dataset without
having to decrypt it. This makes it appropriate for situations
like cloud storage where data may be given to a third party
because it safeguards the confidentiality of both the data and
the search queries. Public-Key Searchable Encryption (PKSE),
which employs both a public and a secret key for encryption
and decryption, and Searchable Symmetric Encryption (SSE),
which uses a single secret key, are the two main varieties.
1) Key Generation Algorithm: The TCC randomly selects
w1 ∈ 𭟋w, and the Data User (DU) randomly selects
C SUR ∈ 𭟋w. DU and TCC jointly generate fUR =
C SURw1 through a secure channel.
DU maps its attribute set 1UR into the form
{Catez: Valuez}
|1UR|
z=1 and randomly selects az ∈ 𭟋w for
each attribute. Let µ = O1(GIDUR), where GIDUR is DU’s
global identity.
DU computes the following:
K
′
0,z = (i
γ )
az , K
′
1,z = i
ξ · O2({Catez : Valuez})
−az , (4)
K
′
2 = (o
ξ )
µC SUR, K
′
3 = (o
ξ )
qUR. (5)
Then, SCK
′
UR = {K
′
0,z, K
′
1,z, K
′
2, K
′
3} is securely sent to
the TCC.
Upon receiving SCK
′
UR, the TCC keeps the first two
components unchanged, i.e., K0,z = K
′
0,z, K1,z = K
′
1,z,
Algorithm 5 Post-Quantum Encryption Phase
Require: File B j , ID I id j , keyword ww, access policy (N , φ), public
parameters P R P
Ensure: Post-quantum ciphertext C P T SS
1: // Post-quantum file protection via bilinear map
2: Sample ν j ∈ Zw, compute ky j = e(i, i)
ν j
3: C F j ← Enc(B j , ky j )
4: Compute:
C S0, j = i
γ ν j , C S1, j = i
−I id j , C S2, j = i
ν j
5: Form offline ciphertext C P T SSo f f = {I id j , C F j , C S0, j , C S1, j , C S2, j }
6: // Keyword and policy encryption using LSSS under DBDH
assumption
7: Construct access matrix N , sample s ∈ Zw, compute share vector δ =
N · o
8: for each row j do
9: C S3, j = (i γ )
δ j ; C S4, j = O2({φ( j) : v( j)})
δ j
10: end for
11: Encrypt keyword:
C Sw = e(i
ξ , O3(ww)
s ), C S
′
w = i
ξ s
12: Form index: Iw = {(C S3, j , C S4, j )∀ j , C Sw, C S′
w, N , φ}
13: Return C P T SS = {C P T SSo f f , Iw}
and computes:
K2 = (K
′
2)
w1, K3 = (K
′
3)
aw1. (6)
TCC then sends the attribute secret key SCKUR =
{K0,z, K1,z, K2, K3} back to the DU via a secure channel.
DU generates SCK
′
UR by encrypting their attribute informa-
tion, ensuring that the TCC cannot obtain any attribute-related
data, thereby preserving DU’s privacy.
2) Token Generation Algorithm: To prevent the server from
accessing user information during outsourced decryption, the
DU randomly selects t ∈ 𭟋w and computes:
D EC S0 = K
1/t
2 , D EC S1 = K
1/t
3 , D EC S2 = i
t . (7)
The generated token is D EC SUR = {D EC S0, D EC S1,
D EC S2}.
C. Encryption Phase
The data owner (DO) encrypts traffic data and its asso-
ciated keyword under a fine-grained access policy. This
phase combines an offline encryption mechanism with
an online encryption process using Linear Secret Sharing
Schemes (LSSS). The encrypted file, attribute-based access
structure, and keyword index are embedded into the ciphertext.
The construction ensures that only authorized users with
matching attributes can perform secure search and decryption.
The encryption procedure, designed to be quantum-resistant,
is detailed in Algorithm 5.
More complicated offline calculations cut down on the
amount of time required to encrypt and decode data later on.
This trade-off between upfront “offline” computational com-
plexity and eventual “online” encryption and decryption
speed are known as the “online/offline encryption trade-off.”
Even if the offline phase involves a large initial investment,
it can result in quicker and more effective online operations,
especially for bulk data or dynamic attribute management.
However, if the precomputed components are not completely
exploited, there is a chance that work will be squandered.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on August 02,2026 at 10:13:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.


===== [ Page 7 ] =====

THINGOM et al.: SECURE AND PRIVACY-PRESERVING PQ-ABSE FOR EDGE-DRIVEN TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS 1871
1) Offline Encryption Algorithm: The Data Owner (DO)
encrypts data files in a computationally powerful environment.
For each file B j ∈ F with identifier Iid j ∈ 𭟋w, the DO
randomly selects ν j ∈ 𭟋w, and computes the file encryption
key as ky j = e(i, i)
ν j . The encrypted file is generated as
CF j = Enc(B j , ky j ). Then, the following components are
computed:
C S0,i = i
γ ν j , C S1,i = i
−Iid j , C S2,i = i
ν j . (8)
The offline ciphertext is:
CPTSSoff =
{
Iid j , CF j , C S0,i , C S1,i , C S2,i
}
i∈|F| . (9)
2) Online Encryption Algorithm: After receiving the
attribute category set from the cloud server, the DO converts
the access policy into a Linear Secret Sharing Scheme (LSSS)
access matrix Nl×n. Each row N j of N corresponds to an
attribute satisfying the access policy and is composed of an
attribute category t j and a value v j , i.e., {t j : v j }
e
j .
A mapping function φ : φ( j) → t j maps each row j to
its attribute category t j . Note that φ maps only the attribute
category (not the attribute value), preventing malicious users
from learning sensitive attribute values directly from the
matrix N and the function φ, thereby ensuring the privacy
of the access policy.
The DO randomly selects a secret s ∈ 𭟋w and sets the
vector o = (s, o2, o3, . . . , on)
L with o2, o3, . . . , on ∈ 𭟋w.
Then, the secret share vector is computed as:
δ = M y = (δ1, δ2, . . . , δn)
L. (10)
For each attribute j ∈ Att, the DO computes:
C S3,i = (i
γ )
δ j , C S4,i = O2({φ( j) : v( j)})
δ j . (11)
For the encryption of the file keyword ww, compute:
C Sw = e(i
ξ , O3(ww)
s), C S
′
w = i
ξ s. (12)
The keyword index is then:
Iw =
{
C S3,i , C S4,i

∀i∈Att , C Sw, C S
′
w, Ml×n, φ
}
. (13)
The DO uploads the complete ciphertext CPTSS =
{CPTSSoff, Iw}, containing both the file ciphertext and the
keyword index, to the Cloud Service Provider (CSP).
D. Search Phase
1) Trapdoor Generation Algorithm: This algorithm is exe-
cuted by the Data User (DU). DU inputs the public system
parameters, their own attribute secret key, and the keyword ww
they wish to search. The cost of creating a trapdoor in infor-
mation technology systems (ITS) is usually a computational
overhead, with computation time and output length being the
main expenses. Depending on the particular searchable encryp-
tion scheme employed, this cost may differ. The total time
and resource requirements may be impacted by the quantity
of documents, keywords, the complexity of the cryptographic
operations (such as lattice or bilinear pairing), and the size of
the encrypted dataset. DU selects a random value η ∈ 𭟋w and
computes:
L 0,z = (K0,z)
η = i
γ az η,
Algorithm 6 Post-Quantum Decryption Phase
Require: Aggregated key kyagg, partial ciphertext C T S′
j , component C S2, j ,
file ciphertext C F j
Ensure: Decrypted file B j
1: // Recover encryption key using pairing computation
2: Compute:
ky j =

e(C S2, j , kyagg)
C T S′
j
!1/ϵ
3: // Final file decryption
4: B j = Dec(C F j , ky j )
5: Return B j
L 1,z = (K1,z)
η,
= i
ξ η · O2({Catez : Valuez})
−az η (14)
L 2 = i
γ η · O3(ww). (15)
L w = {L 0,z, L 1,z, L 2}. (16)
2) Search Algorithm: Upon receiving a data access request
from the DU, the cloud server inputs the stored ciphertext and
the DU’s trapdoor. It checks whether the DU’s attributes satisfy
the access policy specified by the DO during encryption, and
whether the keyword requested by the DU matches the one
encrypted in the ciphertext.
The server first computes the parameter:
Bt = i∈|1|

e(C S3,i , L 1,z) · e(C S4,i , L 0,z)
w j , (17)
and then verifies whether the following equation holds:
e(C S
′
w, L 2)
Bt
= C Sw (18)
E. Decryption Phase
Once the search is complete, the cloud server returns a
partially decrypted ciphertext and an aggregate key to the
data user. Using these and their private token, the user derives
the file encryption key and decrypts the content. This process
ensures that only eligible users can access the data, even in
the presence of quantum-capable adversaries. The steps for
computing the decryption key and retrieving the plaintext file
are provided in Algorithm 6.
1) Partial Decryption Algorithm: After completing the
search, the Cloud Service Provider (CSP) computes a partial
decryption for each ciphertext that satisfies the search con-
dition. It generates an aggregated key kyagg and produces a
partially decrypted ciphertext CPTSS
′
j corresponding to the
original ciphertext.
The CSP records the identifiers of all matched ciphertexts,
denoted as Iid j , and computes:
D =  j∈|CPTSS| Iid j . (19)
(1) Partial Decryption Algorithm (continued) The cloud
server takes the system parameter i
γ and the user’s token
D EC S2 as input, and computes the aggregated key as:
kyagg =

i
γ · i
−D · D EC S2

. (20)
Since the CSP uses the user’s token when generating the
aggregation key, only the intended user can successfully derive
the file encryption key from it.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on August 02,2026 at 10:13:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.


===== [ Page 8 ] =====

1872 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CONSUMER ELECTRONICS, VOL. 72, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 2026
Pairing-based cryptography is not thought to be feasible in
a post-quantum setting since it depends on Diffie-Hellman-
type problems, which quantum computers can solve effectively
with methods such as Shor’s algorithm. Pairings are not a post-
quantum security solution since they do not provide resistance
to quantum attacks, even though they allow a variety of
sophisticated cryptographic applications. Rather, post-quantum
cryptography is based on alternative mathematical foundations,
including lattices, which are thought to be impervious to
quantum processing.
During partial decryption of ciphertext CPTSS, the CSP
uses the parameter:
D =  j∈|CPTSS| Iid j , (21)
which can only be computed once the matching ciphertexts
are determined.
For each ciphertext component, the CSP computes:
C Spub,i = (C S1,i )
D/lali,
CPTSS0 = e(D EC S0, C S0,i )
1/µ,
CTS1 = e(D EC S1 · C Spub,i · i
γ , C S2,i ). (22)
The partially decrypted ciphertext is then calculated as:
CTS
′
j =
CTS1
CTS0
. (23)
This process involves both the ciphertext data and the
user-supplied token. However, the token does not reveal any
attribute or identity information of the DU, ensuring user
privacy even during server-side computation.
The cloud server returns the aggregated key kyagg and the
partially decrypted ciphertext CTS
′
j to the DU.
2) Decryption Algorithm: The DU downloads the aggre-
gation key kyagg, the ciphertext CTS, and the corresponding
partially decrypted ciphertext CTS
′
j from the cloud server.
To recover the file encryption key ky j , the DU computes:
ky j =

e(C S2,i , kyagg)
CTS
′
j
!1/ϵ
. (24)
Finally, the DU uses the derived file key to decrypt the file:
B j = Dec(CF j , ky j ). (25)
(1) Partial Decryption Algorithm (continued): The cloud
server takes the system parameter i
γ and the user’s token
D EC S2 as input, and computes the aggregated key as:
kyagg =

i
γ · i
−D · D EC S2

. (26)
Re-encryption is a cryptographic technique that converts a
ciphertext encrypted under one key into a ciphertext encrypted
under a different key, frequently to update access permissions
during revocation or for data sharing without disclosing the
original plaintext. Revocation entails rescinding a user’s access
to encrypted data by changing access policies or re-encrypting
data. Re-encryption can take place within cloud-based sys-
tems, which lessens the user’s communication load. Since the
CSP uses the user’s token in generating the aggregated key,
only the legitimate user can successfully derive the file encryp-
tion key. The cloud server calculates the parameter:
D =  j∈|CTS| Iid j , (27)
which can only be obtained after matching the ciphertexts.
For each ciphertext CTS, the server computes:
C Spub,i = (C S1,i )
D/lali,
CTS0 = e(D EC S0, C S0,i )
1/µ, (28)
CTS1 = e(D EC S1 · C Spub,i · i
γ , C S2,i ). (29)
The partially decrypted ciphertext is:
CTS
′
j =
CTS1
CTS0
. (30)
The CSP uses ciphertext components and the token sent
by the DU to compute this result. Since the DU’s token does
not contain explicit identity or attribute information, the CSP
cannot learn any sensitive data, thereby preserving the DU’s
privacy. Key aggregate encryption makes management easier,
it makes key updates and revocation more challenging because
a single aggregate key frequently decrypts several ciphertexts,
making it challenging to update a key or revoke a user without
impacting others. Techniques like changing public parameters,
using secret sharing, or re-encrypting particular ciphertexts
are examples of effective methods that isolate the effects
of modifications while preserving flexibility and efficiency
and guaranteeing that non-revoked users may still decrypt.
In this stage, an online encryption procedure utilizing Linear
Secret Sharing Schemes (LSSS) is combined with an offline
encryption mechanism. The ciphertext includes the encrypted
file, attribute-based access structure, and keyword index. The
design guarantees that only authorized users with matching
attributes to the specified access structure are able to decrypt
and access the file, while non-authorized users are prevented,
thereby ensuring fine-grained access control and secure data
sharing.
The CSP returns the aggregated key kyagg and the partially
decrypted ciphertext CTS
′
j to the DU.
3) Final Decryption Algorithm: The DU downloads the
aggregation key kyagg, the ciphertext CTS, and the correspond-
ing partially decrypted ciphertext CTS
′
j from the cloud server.
It then computes the file encryption key:
ky j =

e(C S2,i , kyagg)
CTS
′
j
!1/ϵ
. (31)
Finally, the DU uses the recovered key to decrypt the desired
file:
B j = Dec(CF j , ky j ). (32)
V. PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS
A. Functionality Comparison
Table I provides a detailed comparison of the proposed
scheme with schemes in related works [16], [17], [20], [22],
[23] IInd (12). Compared to these works, the proposed scheme
introduces three new features: online/offline encryption, full
privacy protection, and key aggregation.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on August 02,2026 at 10:13:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.


===== [ Page 9 ] =====

THINGOM et al.: SECURE AND PRIVACY-PRESERVING PQ-ABSE FOR EDGE-DRIVEN TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS 1873
TABLE I
COMMUNICATION OVERHEAD ANALYSIS ON THE USER SIDE
B. Communication Overhead Analysis
This section compares the communication overhead on the
user side in the proposed scheme with that of schemes in [16],
[20], and [22]. For clearer comparison, let |Xw|, |I1|, and |I2|
denote the bit lengths of the field Xw, and groups I1, I2,
respectively. The hash functions mapping to these sets are
assumed to have outputs of the same bit lengths. Let |H |
denote the bit length of the hash function output. Also, let
u, e, n, and n
′ denote the numbers of attributes, keywords,
files, and ciphertexts, respectively.
Revocation mechanisms render cryptographic keys or cer-
tificates invalid in order to stop an identified entity from
using them in the future. Certificate Revocation Lists (CRLs)
and Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) are the key
techniques; list management, dissemination, and verification
incur expenses. If the key used to encrypt the ciphertext is
revoked, the most significant effect on the current ciphertext
is that it becomes undecryptable, requiring re-encryption with
a new, valid key to preserve data security and accessibility.
Table I compares the communication overhead of a sin-
gle user in the encryption phase, trapdoor generation phase,
and decryption phase. From Table I, it is evident that the
proposed scheme incurs lower communication costs in all
phases compared to [16]. Both the encryption and decryption
communication costs are lower than those of [20]. Limited
resources Internet of Things devices are those with constrained
energy, memory, communication bandwidth, and processing
power. These limitations are frequently brought on by their
low cost, tiny size, and dependence on batteries or other finite
power sources. This restriction makes it difficult to implement
intricate security procedures, execute complex algorithms, and
handle substantial volumes of data on the device itself. While
the decryption overhead is similar to [22], the encryption and
trapdoor generation overheads are lower. These results indicate
that the proposed scheme imposes low storage requirements
on devices and achieves lightweight communication for users.
C. Computation Cost Analysis and Simulation
This section evaluates the computational overhead of the
proposed scheme on user-side terminals and compares it with
existing schemes [16], [20], [22]. All algorithms were imple-
mented in C on a Linux environment. Let L a, L h, L m, L e, L w
denote the costs of addition, hash, multiplication, expo-
nentiation, and bilinear pairing operations, respectively. The
suggested PQABSE scheme’s security is formally defined
using a post-quantum game-based simulation framework.
A classical adversary uses conventional hardware and algo-
rithms to target a computing environment. Three security
games are available: keyword ciphertext indistinguishability,
TABLE II
ENCRYPTION COST ON TERMINAL DEVICES
Fig. 3. Encryption time vs. keyword count (l = 30) and attribute count
(u = 30).
trapdoor indistinguishability, and replayable CCA security
with hidden access structures (oAS-RCCA). Each game
outlines the conditions necessary to successfully violate pri-
vacy and explains an adversary’s capabilities in polynomial
time when faced with adaptive questions. The selection of
bilinear pairing is crucial in a post-quantum setting since
conventional pairing-based encryption is insecure due to its
reliance on assumptions that are susceptible to quantum
attacks. NIST’s post-quantum algorithm guidelines show that
lattice-based cryptography is the most promising approach
in post-quantum cryptography, which instead emphasizes
security against quantum computers. As researchers assess
algorithms and create frameworks for quantum-safe attribute-
based encryption (ABE), the emphasis switches to creating
quantum-resistant schemes that circumvent or adjust to the
shortcomings of pairing assumptions, even as the basic char-
acteristics of bilinear pairings (such as those employed in
identity-based encryption) are still investigated.
The method greatly lowers user-side key storage cost while
maintaining file and data security by combining all file
identifiers that satisfy the search and access criteria into a
single aggregate key by utilizing key aggregation techniques.
Security study verifies that the plan accomplishes indistin-
guishability of trapdoors, hidden access structure security,
and keyword ciphertext indistinguishability in a post-quantum
setting.
To analyze runtime trends, we fix the number of attributes
(l = 30) to measure keyword-based impact and fix the number
of keywords (u = 30) to evaluate attribute impact.
As shown in Table II and Figure 3, encryption time increases
with both attribute and keyword count. The proposed scheme
exhibits lower keyword sensitivity than [20], and outper-
forms [16] for keyword counts below 30. For attribute counts
exceeding 40, it gradually outperforms [20].
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on August 02,2026 at 10:13:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.


===== [ Page 10 ] =====

1874 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CONSUMER ELECTRONICS, VOL. 72, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 2026
TABLE III
TRAPDOOR GENERATION AND DECRYPTION COST
Fig. 4. Trapdoor time vs. keyword count (fixed l) and attribute count (fixed u).
Fig. 5. Decryption time vs. attribute count.
“Varying attribute set sizes and keyword counts” describes
data management where the quantity of attributes or related
keywords can fluctuate on the fly. In programming, this is
utilizing keywords like VARYING or VARCHAR to create
variable-length attributes instead of fixed-length ones in data
modeling. The term “search engine optimization” (SEO) refers
to adjusting the “keyword density” (the proportion of key-
words to total words) and the quantity and kind of keywords
used in content to satisfy shifting search trends or platform
specifications.
Table III and Figure 4 show that the trapdoor generation
time in the proposed scheme increases modestly with keyword
count but more sharply with attribute count. Performance is
better than [20], comparable to [22], and slightly below [16]
due to keyword-attribute coupling.
Figure 5 shows that decryption time is largely independent
of attribute count across all schemes. Although the pro-
posed method incurs slightly higher decryption time than [16]
and [22], it supports one-time aggregate key decryption,
significantly reducing key management complexity while
maintaining strong security for file keys.
Key management features called forward and backward
secrecy are intended to shield encrypted communications from
long-term secrets that may be compromised. In the event
that a long-term secret is compromised, prior session keys
and associated messages will still be safe because to forward
secrecy, which shields previous communications from future
compromise. In contrast to a long-lived secret compromise,
which prevents an attacker from deciphering previous mes-
sages, backward secrecy shields future communications from
the compromise of old session keys and “self-heals” compro-
mised previous sessions, preventing future data loss.
VI. CONCLUSION
To address the growing privacy and security challenges
associated with traffic data in Intelligent Transportation Sys-
tems (ITS), this paper presents a post-quantum attribute-based
searchable encryption (PQ-ABSE) scheme. In Intelligent
Transportation Systems (ITS), schemes can adjust to highly
dynamic attribute sets by implementing attribute-based access
control with dynamic policies for real-time access manage-
ment, using dynamic weighting and fuzzy logic to adjust
attribute relevance, and incorporating incremental attribute
reduction to update attribute importance over time. This
ensures that schemes remain effective even as attributes
change. When data changes, traditional attribute reduction
techniques necessitate starting over with a new calculation.
Highly effective for dynamic data, incremental approaches use
past findings to update the present reduct (a basic collection
of attributes that retain crucial information). The proposed
framework ensures that sensitive user attributes and key-
word information remain hidden throughout the processes
of attribute key generation, encrypted keyword search, and
partial decryption. Notably, neither the Transportation Control
Center (TCC) nor the Cloud Service Provider (CSP) gains
access to the private data of platform or vehicle users, pre-
serving end-user confidentiality under strong cryptographic
assumptions. To enhance efficiency and scalability, an aggre-
gate key generation mechanism is incorporated. Once a search
operation identifies matching ciphertexts, the CSP generates
a single aggregate key corresponding to all matched entries.
The future goal of the PQ-BASE project is to build the
network architecture for the upcoming 6G telecommunica-
tions infrastructure by including AI-native features to support
new services like hyper-connectivity, extended reality, and
ubiquitous sensing. By developing a strong data architecture,
maximizing resource placement, and encouraging sustainabil-
ity throughout the network’s lifecycle, it seeks to build a 6G
infrastructure that is resilient, secure, and energy-efficient. The
data user can then utilize this compact key to decrypt multiple
files, significantly reducing storage and key management over-
head. Furthermore, to accommodate the resource-constrained
nature of edge devices and application platforms in ITS, the
scheme employs a lightweight encryption structure with an
outsourced decryption model. Most computationally intensive
operations are delegated to the cloud server, while sensitive
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on August 02,2026 at 10:13:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.


===== [ Page 11 ] =====

THINGOM et al.: SECURE AND PRIVACY-PRESERVING PQ-ABSE FOR EDGE-DRIVEN TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS 1875
computations are retained by the user to maintain privacy.
Comprehensive security and performance analyses confirm
that the scheme achieves both robustness and efficiency, even
in the presence of quantum-capable adversaries. By com-
bining fine-grained access control, secure keyword search,
and quantum-resistant cryptographic primitives, the proposed
PQ-ABSE scheme offers a practical and future-proof solution
for privacy-preserving data sharing in next-generation ITS
environments. The suggested PQ-ABSE technique, which uses
quantum-resistant cryptographic primitives, provides a work-
able and secure alternative for data exchange that protects
privacy in next-generation ITS contexts. The ciphertext con-
tains the keywords index and re. Secure search and decryption
can only be carried out by authorized users who possess the
necessary characteristics, thanks to the construction. A strong
way to protect communications from quantum computers is
by quantum-resistant lattice-based encryption, which leverages
the complexity of lattice problems such as the Shortest Vector
Problem (SVP) to provide security.
REFERENCES
[1] A. Ghasemi, A. Keshavarzi, A. M. Abdelmoniem, O. R. Nejati, and
T. Derikvand, “Edge intelligence for intelligent transport systems:
Approaches, challenges, and future directions,” Expert Syst. Appl.,
vol. 280, Jun. 2025, Art. no. 127273.
[2] D. Xu et al., “Post-quantum authentication against cyber-physical attacks
in V2X-based autonomous vehicle platoon,” IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp.
Syst., vol. 25, no. 6, pp. 5034–5044, Jun. 2024.
[3] K.-A. Shim, “A survey on post-quantum public-key signature schemes
for secure vehicular communications,” IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst.,
vol. 23, no. 9, pp. 14025–14042, Sep. 2022.
[4] S. Xu et al., “Post-quantum anonymous, traceable and linkable
authentication scheme based on blockchain for intelligent vehicular
transportation systems,” IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 25, no. 9,
pp. 12108–12119, Sep. 2024.
[5] L.-Y. Yeh, N.-X. Shen, and R.-H. Hwang, “Blockchain-based privacy-
preserving and sustainable data query service over 5G-VANETs,” IEEE
Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 23, no. 9, pp. 15909–15921, Sep. 2022.
[6] H. Guo, X. Zhou, J. Liu, and Y. Zhang, “Vehicular intelligence in 6G:
Networking, communications, and computing,” Veh. Commun., vol. 33,
Jan. 2022, Art. no. 100399.
[7] H. Li, D. Liu, Y. Dai, T. H. Luan, and S. Yu, “Personalized search over
encrypted data with efficient and secure updates in mobile clouds,” IEEE
Trans. Emerg. Topics Comput., vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 97–109, Jan. 2018.
[8] H. Tian, Z. Fan, Z. Ruan, and A. Zhao, “Efficient searchable encryption
scheme supporting fuzzy multi-keyword ranking search on blockchain,”
Comput., Mater. Continua, vol. 83, no. 3, pp. 5199–5217, 2025.
[9] Z. Tang et al., “Enabling efficient and accurate semantic search over
encrypted cloud data,” Inf. Sci., vol. 719, Nov. 2025, Art. no. 122437.
[10] M. Li, G. Wang, S. Liu, and J. Yu, “Multi-keyword fuzzy search over
encrypted cloud storage data,” Proc. Comput. Sci., vol. 187, Jan. 2021,
pp. 365–370.
[11] Z. Fu, X. Sun, N. Linge, and L. Zhou, “Achieving effective cloud
search services: Multi-keyword ranked search over encrypted cloud data
supporting synonym query,” IEEE Trans. Consum. Electron., vol. 60,
no. 1, pp. 164–172, Feb. 2014.
[12] H. Zhong, Z. Li, J. Cui, Y. Sun, and L. Liu, “Efficient dynamic multi-
keyword fuzzy search over encrypted cloud data,” J. Netw. Comput.
Appl., vol. 149, Jan. 2020, Art. no. 102469.
[13] B. Lang, J. Wang, M. Li, and Y. Liu, “Semantic-based compound
keyword search over encrypted cloud data,” IEEE Trans. Services
Comput., vol. 14, no. 3, pp. 850–863, May 2021.
[14] F. Zhao, C. Peng, D. Xu, Y. Liu, K. Niu, and H. Tang, “Attribute-based
multi-user collaborative searchable encryption in COVID-19,” Comput.
Commun., vol. 205, pp. 118–126, May 2023.
[15] Z. Cao, “A note on ‘AESM2 attribute-based encrypted search for multi-
owner and multi-user distributed systems,”’ IEEE Trans. Parallel Distrib.
Syst., vol. 36, no. 4, pp. 675–676, Apr. 2025.
[16] Y. Liang, Y. Li, Q. Cao, and F. Ren, “VPAMS: Verifiable and practical
attribute-based multi-keyword search over encrypted cloud data,” J. Syst.
Archit., vol. 108, Sep. 2020, Art. no. 101741.
[17] W. Sun, S. Yu, W. Lou, Y. T. Hou, and H. Li, “Protecting your
right: Verifiable attribute-based keyword search with fine-grained owner-
enforced search authorization in the cloud,” IEEE Trans. Parallel Distrib.
Syst., vol. 27, no. 4, pp. 1187–1198, Apr. 2016.
[18] L. Guo, Z. Li, W.-C. Yau, and S.-Y. Tan, “A decryptable attribute-
based keyword search scheme on eHealth cloud in Internet of Things
platforms,” IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 26107–26118, 2020.
[19] Z. Fu, J. Shu, X. Sun, and N. Linge, “Smart cloud search ser-
vices: Verifiable keyword-based semantic search over encrypted cloud
data,” IEEE Trans. Consum. Electron., vol. 60, no. 4, pp. 762–770,
Nov. 2014.
[20] X. Liu, S. Zhang, H. Huang, W. Wang, and R. Malekian, “A verifiable
and efficient secure sharing scheme in multiowner multiuser settings,”
IEEE Syst. J., vol. 17, no. 4, pp. 5798–5809, Apr. 2023.
[21] K. K. Singamaneni, G. Muhammad, and Z. Ali, “A novel multi-qubit
quantum key distribution ciphertext-policy attribute-based encryption
model to improve cloud security for consumers,” IEEE Trans. Consum.
Electron., vol. 70, no. 1, pp. 1092–1101, Feb. 2024.
[22] W. Wang, P. Xu, D. Liu, L. T. Yang, and Z. Yan, “Lightweighted secure
searching over public-key ciphertexts for edge-cloud-assisted industrial
IoT devices,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 16, no. 6, pp. 4221–4230,
Jun. 2020.
[23] J. Sun, S. Hu, and X. Nie, “Fine-grained ranked multi-keyword search
over hierarchical data for IoT-oriented health system,” IEEE Access,
vol. 7, pp. 101969–101980, 2019.
[24] H. Khalid, S. J. Hashim, F. Hashim, W. A. M. Al-Jawher,
M. A. Chaudhary, and H. H. M. Altarturi, “RAVEN: Robust anonymous
vehicular end-to-end encryption and efficient mutual authentication for
post-quantum intelligent transportation systems,” IEEE Trans. Intell.
Transp. Syst., vol. 25, no. 11, pp. 17574–17586, Nov. 2024.
[25] Z. Qu, X. Liu, and M. Zheng, “Temporal–spatial quantum graph
convolutional neural network based on Schrödinger approach for traffic
congestion prediction,” IEEE Trans. Intell. Transport. Syst., vol. 24,
no. 8, pp. 8677–8686, Aug. 2023.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on August 02,2026 at 10:13:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

